all right you're scuba diving in the
ocean
watching corals and colorful fish
flitting by
when suddenly an enormous shadow appears
above you
you look up and see a massive creature
approaching you
its mouth a gaping abyss relax
just stay still and you'll be fine this
leviathan
is a basking shark one of the scary sea
monsters
that isn't really capable of doing harm
to anyone
basking sharks are filter feeders just
like baleen whales
they open their large mouths to swallow
plankton and
don't even have teeth it's late night in
the central american jungle
you're out in the wild to watch birds
and you hear flapping of wings
excited you look intently into your
night vision goggles
only to see a face out of your worst
nightmares
ah don't scream you'll scare it away
it's a perfectly harmless wrinkle-faced
bat and it isn't interested in you these
are fruit bats
and wrinkles on their faces allow them
to collect fruit pieces and juice for
later snacks
by the way their latin name centuro
cenex
was given to them for their semblance to
100 year old humans
walking around at nepali national park
and deciding to wash your face in the
river nearby
you freeze in terror a crocodile is
looking straight at you
from no more than a few feets distance
then
it raises its snout above the water and
you exhale in relief
it's a gharial these reptiles have long
and narrow snouts that allow them to
efficiently catch fish
and at the same time prohibiting them
from hunting any other prey
while still carnivores gharials are
pretty shy
and will slither away at the side of
humans right now
there are no more than a thousand of
these crocodilians in the whole world
so let it go especially if it's a girl
gharial
you dig your garden in the backyard and
notice something moving on your shovel
you take a closer look and drop the tool
in horror
a small creature looking like a hostile
alien is scurrying away into some burrow
in the ground
no worries it's just a star-nosed mole
these critters have peculiar snouts
that look like they've been blown up
from within their eyes are small and
weak
so the star on their nose helps them a
lot to move around
and seek food it's always on the move
touching
everything it can reach as if the
tendrils were tiny fingers
oh you're bathing in the ocean again
well look to your right
there's a real toothed shark going right
at you
nah don't panic it's just a sand tiger
shark
neither a sand nor a tiger one it's a
vulnerable fish eating shark that slowly
swims in the seas
and chases its prey from time to time
there have been no reports of it ever
attacking humans
but it still has rows of sharp teeth so
don't try to touch it just in case it
may seem placid but
you don't want it to get a bite out of
you do you
okay from ocean to desert you're in
australia
and longing for some water you see a
likely spot and start digging the ground
only to stumble upon a creature straight
from the depths of neither
all covered in thorns it eyes you
suspiciously
and slinks away because it's just a
thorny devil
despite its ominous name this lizard is
harmless to humans
horn-like bumps on its skin are for
protection from predators and birds of
prey
the thorns are hard but as long as you
don't touch them
you're fine now if you have
arachnophobia it won't calm you down
but tailless whip scorpions you might
meet in north and south america
as well as asia and africa are more
afraid of you
than you are of them tell yourself that
these nightmarish creatures don't have
stingers and won't even bite when
threatened
the worst they could do and only if you
corner them why would you do that
is prick you with their front legs
leaving tiny puncture marks on your
finger
many people even keep them as pets and
they're quite affectionate toward their
owners
yeah if you ever stumble upon a burrow
from which a hairless
big tooth creature is peeking at you
just don't mind it
and let it be naked mole rats are the
sphynx cats among rodents
they're close relatives of mole rats but
well
naked and they're fascinating in their
own right too
thanks to living entirely underground
they're almost totally cold-blooded
but can conform to any temperature
outside
and their flappy wrinkled skin doesn't
feel any pain at all
so pins and prickles as well as sharp
teeth don't scare
naked mole rats you're once again
lost in the jungle this time on
madagascar
poor you the night has fallen and you
seek shelter but when you think you've
found a suitable tree to build a lean to
you freeze in terror a black long
fingered hand appears on a tree branch
right above you
and two huge yellow eyes are staring you
down then you see a shaggy face and
realize
it's just a lemur and i i more precisely
this creature is native to madagascar
and only goes out at night
so you're lucky to see it it fulfills a
role of a woodpecker in tropical forests
it knocks on tree trunks to find bugs
and uses its long whizzing fingers to
reach inside
tired of being scared you seek your way
home
but your horrors aren't over yet there's
a big
red and white snake across your path it
hisses and lies in wait
for you to move you know it's a coral
snake
a really dangerous venomous kind you
stop in your tracks
and only when it finally slithers away
you realize
it was actually a milk snake they often
mimic venomous ones
not only coral snakes to protect
themselves from predators
still if you're not a snake expert it's
always best to
stay away okay this creature will infest
your darkest dreams
a giant african millipede it's big
it's glossy black and it has hundreds of
tiny crawly legs
and yet if it had googly eyes it could
even be cute
perhaps that's why so many people keep
them as pets
that and because they commonly live up
to 10 years
giant millipedes can't really bite their
only defense is
curling into a tight ball and secreting
irritating liquid from the pores of its
skin
if you dare touch it don't rub your eyes
or nose afterwards
it's quite unpleasant
goliath bird eater is another popular
pet creepy crawler
it isn't dangerous for humans despite it
looking like your worst nightmare
this is one of the largest spiders in
the world and as its name implies
it sometimes hunts small birds for food
but they aren't part of its regular diet
the spider prefers worms and
amphibians make sure you don't frighten
it though it can still bite or release
hairs in self-defense
the bite is similar to a wasp sting and
hairs can cause severe irritation on
your skin
but mostly this gentle giant is just shy
and will crawl away at the side of you
oh dear there's another snake
approaching you and fast
you're about to turn and run when you
see a hulking eight-legged form
cutting into the snake's path and
leaping on it
it's another arachnid and it looks even
more terrifying than the snake
it's a camel spider not really a spider
nor a scorpion these creatures belong to
a separate family
they became the stuff of many urban
legends but in fact
they don't even have any venom sure they
can bite
and their jaws are pretty powerful but
camel spiders can't do much more to a
human
than just bite they hide in the sand and
burrow
to leap on unsuspecting lizards
invertebrates
and yes even snakes and now
picture a pill bug not exactly a beauty
but
since it's small it's okay but what if
it were
ten times as large no definitely not
okay
still such a creature exists and it's a
giant isopod
thankfully it lurks in deep dark and
cold waters
so it won't ever come up in your
backyard
giant isopods grow to such enormous size
because of something called deep sea
gigantism
deep dwelling creatures have to endure
great pressure of water
extreme cold temperatures and scarce
food
so their metabolism slows down isopods
don't move much
and more often than not just lie and
wait until
some poor small bug or crustacean crawls
within their reach
and they can munch on it and though it
looks like a mini-legged chaos from
below
a giant isopod can't hurt you even if it
wanted to
just pet it already